So this session is about what what runs where.
So with next we have the server side and client side,
and in most situations it runs both
on the server side and client side
and if React is fully hydrated
then the client side is like a no op, no operation,
but it still runs.
But there are some situations where
you don't want code to run on one or the other,
so it's useful to know where those edges are.
So I had this problem where
I was adding a notes block to the app we're building.
And I wanted to show dynamic modules,
which I'll show you in the next video.
But for the time being we have a text area here,
or what appears to be a text area,
it's actually CodeMirror.
And the intention is it supports markdown,
it'll have markdown syntax highlighted.
So not so complicated, but.
It requires that we include the react-codemirror component
and to load in the CSS
just the word to note compared to the other videos
I've switched over to using the CSS loader
instead of the SECS, I've just changed everything to CSS.
And this new notes component is included
in the session component which I've just
rearranged a little bit here.
So notes has a URL, just popping it straight down there.
Okay, so, this isn't syntax highlighted
because it is not importing the markdown mode.
So, I'm adding the markdown mode.
I'm just gonna click away.
And we'll just go back to Jenn's talk.
And, oh, that's gotta be markdown here.
Let's just go back and come back again.
So nothing is happening there, it's a great start.
Let's just try that again.
Put that back in.
Okay.
So there we've got syntax highlighting, so it does.
M, strong, and so on.
The reason I was kind of doing like this
is that this import statement actually causes a problem.
So we've got the code saved and hit refresh,
now all the code blows up.
The reason for this is this particular JavaScript file
is trying to access the navigator object.
And the navigator object doesn't exist,
and so this error actually originates from server side
and is being propagated out to the client side.
The reason it worked when I navigated around
is because when I navigate to
one of these pages in the browser
it's running inside of the browser.
Now the reason it's still saying,
"Navigator not defined," is because it cached the error
and it's trying, the paged cached.
Restart, it'll flush that cache,
and it'll load, and it won't load a session page
because session is used all over the place.
Okay, the point is navigator's not there, okay.
This is happening client side, that's why this works,
but it doesn't work on the server side.
So we need to somehow work out
when we can run on the client side.
So, when the react component
is rendered on the server side
everything in the life cycle of a react component is run
except for componentDidMount.
So, componentDidMount, where are we here?
Only runs in the client side.
All right, but everything else is run on server side,
so if I did componentWillMount you'll see
it's on the server side as well.
Okay.
So if we hit refresh, yep, refresh.
So you see componentWillMount, and then render,
and on the client side, oops,
we will see componentWillMount, render, componentDidMount.
So this is the only place in the component
that runs client side.
So we could put our request.
Where is it?
So we give that a try, so let's just refresh that.
And it's not working there.
I'm gonna get another try, just do a local navigation.
Kind of works there, but it doesn't work on load.
And the reason it doesn't work on load is because
the component mounts, and then we require this module
which just loads some stuff into memory,
but it doesn't trigger another update or render.
And nothing changes anyway,
so we could do this.forceUpdate,
which is not a very healthy thing to do
but we can do that anyway.
But that doesn't do anything
because nothing changed here.
And actually what I need to do
is just change something inside of this plugin.
So what I can do is make the default mode text.
Here I can do this.setState mode markdown.
And because I'm changing the state at this point,
this will trigger the render function again
and inside of the codemirror component
it will see that the state has changed
and it will cause it to basically
rerun the tokenizer which does all the syntax highlighting.
So.
It works locally and refresh works locally,
server side as well, so it doesn't blow up on the server.
And just whilst we're on what runs where,
we also should note that
this getInitialProps, this is a really good place to
kind of decide what to run
and detect what's running when.
Because along with query we can get
the request and the response,
and the request is actually a useful one to know.
If request, then we run on the server side,
and if no request,
we're on the client.
Okay so if I go over to here.
Hit refresh.
So that will run once on the server side.
And because the getInitialProps only ran
on the server side for this page
it will run again if we go into one of these pages.
So we can use getInitialProps to detect
when we're on the server
or when we're on a client side.
And in fact in next 5.1,
there's a module that's been exposed,
you'll be able to do import config from
next/config, and inside of that there should be,
you might be able to set flag
saying whether or not you're in the
server side or in a client side.
So that might be another way of doing things.
So that is what runs where.
If you just wanna run some code in a client side
for a component you want to put it into componentDidMount,
and then do something to kind of trigger a rerender.
And next you should look at dynamic loading
and how we can move all of this actually into the client,
because arguably if we're gonna retokenize
all of this CodeMirror view,
this CodeMirror stuff's gonna rerun
the entire thing in a client side,
why bother even running on it server side?
Okay so we're gonna move it all into the client side
and make its own small code splitted,
bit of JavaScript basically.